---
layout: post
title: Slack for Personal Use
---

<h1>What is Slack?</h1>
<p>Slack is basically a messaging app on steroids.</p>
<p>It's meant for teams and workplaces, can be used across multiple devices and platforms, and is equipped with robust features that allow you to not only chat one-on-one with associates but also in groups. You're able to upload and share files with them too, as well as integrate with other apps and services, such as Skype for video calls, and you can granularly control almost every setting, including the ability to create custom emoji.</p>

<h2>How do you sign up and get started?</h2>
<ol>
	<li>Go to <a href="https://slack.com/">Slack’s website</a> and enter your email address to sign up </li>
	<li>Choose a name for your Slack team (ex Workshop Talk)</li>
	<li>Edit the url to your Slack team (ex <a href="https://workshoptalk.slack.com">link</a>)</li>
	<li>Choose a username for yourself</li>
	<li>Enter emails of associates you’d like to invite to join your Slack team</li>
  <li>Your Slack team chat will then load in a browser window</li>
  <li>Go through the brief tutorial that appears next to learn the basics</li>
</ol>

<h2>Were you invited to join a Slack team?</h2>
<p>Those of you who were invited to join a Slack team will get an email with your invite. Accept the invite via the email, then enter a username and password, and you're good to go. Simples, right?</p>

<h2>How does Slack work?</h2>
<p>Settings: Click on your username or the drop-down arrow next to the Slack team name to access a settings menu. From here you can adjust your preferences (themes for sidebar, messages, emoji style, and more), view your profile and account, access a Help/Feedback page, get Slack apps (more on that later), and set yourself to away. If you're an administrator, you can also access team settings, billing, etc. Team members will only see options to access app integrations, customise slack, and jump to team directory.</p>
<p>Notifications: Click the bell symbol at the top-right of the sidebar to adjust your notification preferences. You can snooze them, setup a Do Not Disturb schedule, and more. When you sign in to Slack for the first time, almost every type of notification is enabled. But the service offers a number of different ways to manage them. Each channel even has individual notification preferences, for instance. To get to those settings, open the channel you want to adjust, then click the name of it at the top of the screen, and select Channel notification preferences.</p>
<p>Starred: Everything you've starred will appear above the Channels section and below your team name and username in the sidebar. Stars are a way to mark an item in Slack as important. You can star channels or direct messages to move them to the top of your left sidebar. You can also star messages in Slack so you can easily come back to them later.</p>
<p>Channels: Underneath the name of your Slack Team and your own username, you’ll see a section called Channels in the sidebar. Channels are chat rooms. You can name chat rooms based on anything, including a project (screenplay), a topic (music), or a team (sales). And you can make them public or private. If a channel is public, everyone in your team can join, but if it is private, only select people can join. And finally, if you click the Channels section name, you’ll see a new window that lets you browse and sort all channels.</p>
<p>
Create Channels: To create a new channel, click the + button next to Channels in the sidebar. You’ll then see options to create a public or private channel. You’ll further be allowed to name the channel, invite others to join, and briefly describe the channel’s purpose.</p>
<p>Direct Messages: Below Channels, you’ll see a Direct Messages section in the sidebar, followed by the names of every person invited to your Slack team. Click on any name to send that person a private, one-to-one message. If you click the + button next to the Direct Messages section, a window will open to let you find or start a direct message conversation.</p>
<p>Invite People: If you’re an administrator, you’ll see a button to invite more people to join your team. This button sits below the Direct Messages section. If you click it, you’ll have three options: full members, restricted accounts, and single-channel guests. The first option gives an invited team member full access to messages and files in any public channel and the team directory. The second option lets the invited team member see only a partial team directory and gives him/her access to select channels and files. And the third option limits the invited team member to messages and files in a single channel.</p>
<p>Messaging: To send a message in a channel or a direct message, click within the text field at the bottom, add your input, and hit enter. While holding a conversation in a channel, you can type a person’s @username to notify them.</p>
<p>Emoji: You can click the emoji button next to the message field to send an emoji. You can also respond to any message on Slack with an emoji reaction. To do that, just mouse over a message and select the Add a reaction icon. Slack offers four different emoji sets: Apple, Google, Twitter, or Emoji One. To pick one, go to team name to open the Team Menu, then choose Preferences, and select the Messages & Media tab. Under Emoji Style, you can select your preference, and then click the "X" when you're finished. Also, if the administrator allows it, anyone can add new emoji to Slack by going to this URL. You'll then be able to create a custom emoji. Amazeballs.</p>
